# Smartagriculture
Smart Farming is an emerging concept that refers to managing farms using modern Information and Communication Technologies to increase the quantity and quality of products while optimizing the human labour required.
In this IoT Based project, we learn about Smart Agriculture & Automatic Irrigation System with Nodemcu ESP8266. Agriculture plays a vital role in the development of agricultural countries. Issues concerning agriculture have been always hindering the development of the country. The only solution to this problem is smart agriculture by modernizing the current traditional methods of agriculture.

Hence the method is making agriculture smart using automation and IoT technologies. Internet of Things (IoT) enables various applications of crop growth monitoring and selection, automatic irrigation decision support, etc. An ESP8266 Based automatic irrigation IoT system is proposed to modernization and improves the productivity of the crop.

In this project, We will make IoT Smart Agriculture with Automatic Irrigation System using some simple sensors that are available in the market. We will use Capacitive Soil Moisture Sensor to measure moisture content present in the soil. We will also use the DHT11 Humidity Temperature Sensor to measure Air Temperature and Humidity. Using a 5V Power relay we will control the Water Pump. Whenever the low quantity of moisture is detected in the soil, the motor automatically turns on, and hence the irrigation is done automatically. Once the soil becomes wet, the motor turns off. All this happening can be monitored remotely via Thingspeak Server online from any part of the world.
#MATERIALS USED
